Ingredients:
4 cups flour
2 tsp salt
2 1/2 cups warm water (bath tub temperature)
1/2 cup sour dough starter
2 table spoons (or more or less as needed)
  of unsalted butter (to prevent the crust from getting salty)
  for greesing the baking pans and glasing the crust
1 tps oil for greesing the measuring cup

baketime with the bread in the oven while getting up to temperature:
at least 30 minutes  (continue to perfect this number)

Feeding the starter:
Every other day, feed the starter by putting equal parts water and flour into the jar containing the starter and stir with a spoon until it reaches a uniform consistency. A quarter cup of both parts is recommended. The starter should be stored at room temperature when being used regularly. If the starter is not being used regularly it should be stored in the fridge. In this case it can be fead every other week. The jar will begin to have dried starter build up on the rim and sides. To address this, transfer the starter to a clean jar from time to time and clean out the old one.

Making the bread:

In the evening:
pour the water in a large bowl and add the salt. Put a teaspoon of oil in the 1/2 cup measure and spread it around so as to coat the cup, then use the 1/2 cup to measure out the starter into the large bowl. This prevents the starter from sticking to the measuring cup. Next stir the water salt starter mixture with a large sturdy spoon until both the salt and starter are completely disolved (no chucks of starter or grains of salt). The mixture will now be milky white. Next poor in 4 cups of flour and stir until it is fully mixed (no large chunks of flour or unwettened flour). Cover the bowl with a towel and leave it for at least 8 hours (for example, over night).

The next morning:
Dust flour onto a kneading surface then poor the dough onto the dusted surface. Knead the dough and add small amounts of flour as nessisary if the dough becomes to sticky. Once the dough has a relatively dry exterior (doesn't stick to your hand when touched) and is uniform in texture, cut the dough in half and knead each half seperately again unto balls with dry exteriors. Now melt the butter in the microwave and use it to greese the baking pans. Next, put the dough into the baking pans and rub butter on the top of the dough for a glase using the basting brush. Put the pans in the oven to bread proof (100 deg F) for 1.5 hours. If this temperature is not possible in your oven let rise on the counter for a longer period of time, for example 3 hours may be needed. Remove the pans from the oven and preheat the oven to 500 deg F. Once at temperature put the pans in the oven along with a small pot of water for about 25 minutes to bake. The pot of water will help keep the bread moist. Baking time will vary depending on the nature of the oven and your preferences of crust darkness so it is recommended that the bread be cooked for 15 mintues or so and then checked regularly for the remaining 10 minutes and taken it out earlier or later depending on the crusts colour. Meanwhile, regularly (once every 5 minutes or so) rub more butter on the crust to create a better glaze. After the bread has baked, take the pans out of the oven. Tipping the pan on its side while wearing an oven mit should result in the bread sliding out on its own due to the greesing of the pan. Place the bread on a cooling rack and allow the bread to cool for at least 20 minutes before cutting into it so that the bread has a chance to become more firm. Not doing so may cause it to be squished while cutting.



